>> Will Sentance: Ethan's gonna because
it's gonna down further over to Ethan.
>> Ethan: So
user function stores an object but
it can contain anything other
than functions to right?
>> Will Sentance: Yeah,
absolutely, absolutely.
>> Ethan: And
you'd reference it the same way.
>> Will Sentance: Yeah, yeah,
it also by the way, we'll see you later
on may also have a hidden
proto property on it as well.
My goodness,
it was the later on Ethan go ahead.
>> Ethan: So the argument that
object.create accepts is that the,
that is always the Proto?
>> Will Sentance: Well first that
is always thought in the Proto.
Yeah, very well put, thank you.
You want to follow up on that?
>> Ethan: No, just clarifying.
>> Will Sentance: Yeah,
that's a great clarification question.
Putting it another way.
>> Ethan: Instead of referencing MDN
at this moment, I'm just ask you.
[LAUGH}
>> Will Sentance: It's a true fact,
object.create creates an empty
object with a hidden proto property.
Now, I will say this, that property is not
as hidden as our Lexical scope property.
That one you can't see, or
our own fulfilled array.
No console shows that for some reason.
This hidden property if you in the Chrome
Dev tools were to console log user1,
you'd see the little down arrow
in the Chrome Dev tools console.
If you click that,
you'd see this proto property and
a link to user function store.
So this is one that's hidden but
you can see it.
Yeah, more, go ahead.
>> Ethan: So technically it's deprecated
but you can use .getPrototype of I think,
which is a new method of
actually getting it officially.
>> Will Sentance: Excellent.
>> Ethan: But the browser wonks
probably move __proto because it's
kinda built-in forever.
>> Will Sentance: Perfect, we maintain the
consistency of the history of JavaScript.
Excellent, always working with it.
All right, people, so let's now,
yeah, let's now actually go ahead and
run that increment method.
There's my execution context,
I'm ready to go.
Let' just be really clear, as always,
this execution context is gone,
popped off the code side.
Let's go in and run increment.
Local memory is usual.
Let's just put it there.
I want to ask something,
increments code we can see I
put it in one line there, but,
Braden, what is its code?
Just give me the exact words,
what I've sometimes asked for
to relate in the exact words, right?
What is its code?
>> Braydon: This.score ++.
>> Will Sentance: This.scorel++.
Here's the problem, this increment
function doesn't need to work on user 1,
doesn't need to work on user 2,
doesn't need to work on user 403.
Yeah, exactly.
All of them.
So this increment method.
I guess if I wanted to work on user1,
inside of it,
I'm going to need to write user1.score ++.
So that they can go and look for us one
find the school property and implement it.
But then the problem is by then
run it user2.increment and
inside running inside of
increment ran user1.score++.
So I need this method this
function to be working on user1 or
user2or user4 or user405.
Don't panic, I have an amazing thing.
I'm in my local memory too small with me.
I've an amazing thing called
an implicit parameter.
That means one, I don't even specify.
It's one that's automatically there and
automatically filled in for me.
And it's called this.
As soon as I start running this
method increment in my local memory,
you know what I get?
Without parsing the view
just automatically,
I get an implicit parameter placeholder.
Implicit meaning I didn't write it,
it's there for me, this and
what do you think it's gonna have
automatically assigned to it Todd?
>> Todd: User1.
>> Will Sentance: User1, whatever is
to the left hand side of that dot,
that matters being run on that,
on that object.
Whatever object's on left hand side,
there will be User1.
In fact all functions and
global automatically however this but
besides a couple of other interesting
cases we're going to see today
that this is always there
is a talk about it.
In user creates we had of this, but
it referred to something
that was not too useful.
This is a funny global object
concept in JavaScript window or
global object you may have seen it once or
twice.
And so if we were to try and
use this, inside a user creator,
we'd be pointing off some
funny global object thing.
Some sort of random little object thing.
It wouldn't have not much use, but
when instead it's a function increment,
thus being called upon the user 1 or
the user 2 object.
But therefore needs to be general,
reusable on each of these objects.
Thank goodness we have
this implicit parameter.
This little place holder, here's our one
key rule, it always attaches to itself
the object to the left hand side of the
dots on which that function is being run.
So what does this .score++ Todd,
evaluate to turn into?
>> Todd: User1.score++.
>> Will Sentance: Very nice one, Todd.
Use1.score++.
User 1 not in local memory,
we head out to global, there it is.
Score, increment it to 4.
Beautiful, yeah.
Folk, we're gonna see
another major use of this.
Keyword, there we go,
every time another major user in a moment.
But for now this is our key use,
run a function that shared or
going to be available to many different
objects through the proto link.
And make sure we write it with the keyword
this to access the object on which that
method, that function is being executed
to the right-hand side of the dot.
Thumbs on this people.
>> Will Sentance: Yeah, Jason.
We'll go to Mark.
Jason first, then Mark.
Go ahead, Jason.
>> Jason: Are we explicitly working with
namespaces when this operator is in play,
because of the scoping requirements where
it has to go look to find our value.
>> Will Sentance: We all absolutely
knowing that the this inside of here is
related to,
it is only within this execution context.
Where is the this coming from though?
We'll see in just a moment that we can
play with it in some interesting ways.
We'll see in a moment, Mark?
>> Mark: Is this local execution context?
We're explicitly talking about this.
But it's accessing score
up in global memory, or
changing it without say a return value,
which we've done traditionally.
>> Will Sentance: Sure, so
you're saying this might be like a,
you're cautious about this as
a sort of side effect type thing.
Yeah, absolutely, absolutely,
and that's why, but
it's totally standard within this model.
And it's not inherently problematic.
But it is why we have to accept that,
if we're taking this model,
if we're organizing our code,
there's trade-offs.
Huge benefit, my data or
my functionality or
the availability of that
functionality bundled in one place.
Problem, around the functionality, it can
have consequences anywhere in my code
base, ideally, though, only within
the object I'm trying to target.
But maintaining this sort of code base
can be definitely have its ups and downs.
Very fair question from Mark.